# 📝 Docufy - Create documentations on the web

**Docufy** is a web application created in `NextJS` which allows users to create their own documentation website through
an editor system provided by Docufy.

Users can also _publish_ their documentation projects unto the web and share it to anyone.

# ✨ Features
- Easily create, edit, and manage documentation pages using the provided default template.
- User authentication with Clerk
- Data storage with Convex providing real-time capabilities
- Responsive and fast interface built with Next.js, Tailwind, and Shadcn UI

# 🛠️ Tech Stack
- **Framework**: Next.js
- **Authentication**: Clerk
- **Backend-as-a-Service**: Convex
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS, Shadcn UI
- **State Management**: Zustand

## 📦 Packages
- convex-helpers: For caching convex queries
- @uiw/react-markdown-editor: A markdown editor for React.
- React Markdown: A Markdown component for rendering markdown into HTML.
  - Plugins:
    - rehype-highlight: Syntax highlighting for code blocks.
    - remark-gfm: GitHub Flavored Markdown support (tables, strikethrough, task lists).
    - rehype-raw: Renders raw HTML inside markdown.
    - rehype-slug: Generates slugs for headers in markdown.

# 🚀 For Contributions:
1. Clone the repository:
```bash
https://github.com/hyde-mary/docufy.git
```

<br>

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install --legacy-peer-deps
```

<br>

3. Create Accounts for the following service providers:

You will need accounts for:
- [Clerk](https://clerk.com/) (Authentication)
- [Convex](https://www.convex.dev/) (Database and backend)

After creating accounts, create a new project inside each platform.
- You need to set up Clerk with Convex using their JWT template integration. 
Follow the [documentation](https://docs.convex.dev/auth/clerk) provided by Convex for this.
- You also need to set up Webhooks for Clerk and Convex. Follow Convex's 
[Documentation](https://docs.convex.dev/auth/database-auth#set-up-webhooks) for this.

<br>

4. Set up Environment Variables 

Copy the provided `.env.local.sample` and rename it to `.env.local`

```bash
# Provided after setting up Convex. This might be automatically provided once you run Npx Convex Dev.
CONVEX_DEPLOYMENT=
NEXT_PUBLIC_CONVEX_URL=

# Provided by Clerk. You get this after creating an account.
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=
CLERK_SECRET_KEY=

# Fixed routes for Clerk auth redirection
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_SIGN_IN_URL=/sign-in
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_SIGN_UP_URL=/sign-up
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_SIGN_IN_FALLBACK_REDIRECT_URL=/
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_SIGN_UP_FALLBACK_REDIRECT_URL=/
```

For convex, you typically need to run `npx convex dev` and it will guide you through the steps needed
in linking your account. It may provide the Environment Variables automatically.

<br>

5. Run the App by creating two terminals.
```bash
# terminal 1
npm run dev
```
```bash
# terminal 2
npx convex dev
```

<br>

6. Then open http://localhost:3000 in your browser.

<br>

# 🗂️ Folder Structure

| Folder | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `app/` | Application files (Next.js routing and pages) |
| `components/` | Shared React components |
| `components/ui/` | UI components generated by ShadcnUI |
| `convex/` | Convex files (Internal Mutations, Mutations, and Queries) |
| `hooks/` | Application hooks |
| `lib/` | Libraries and schemas |
| `public/` | Static assets (images, icons, etc.) |
| `stores/` | Zustand stores |
| `types/` | Public types |
| `utils/` | Utility functions |

<br>

# 🙋‍♀️ Contributions
Feel free to submit issues and pull requests.
